So let's start to think about an algorithm
that if our algorithm had been
trying to simply go through the letters
and see if all the letters in our input.
If we were going through a dictionary and
we were saying,
what are all the letters
that I have in this word?
And then just checking to see if those
letters are in our input letters,
that would have been
the most naive algorithm.
But that algorithm would not have taken
account, or it would have allowed
replication of the letters, and so
it wouldn't solve our particular purpose.
So let's think about a different
kind of an algorithm, and
there's actually a variety of
different ways that you might do this.
You might count the letters and see if the
count, and the letters is sufficient or
whatever.
There's a lot of little nuances here,
but let's take a step back and
try to come up with a different
algorithmic way that might or
might be great or really terrible for
solving this problem.
So what we're going to think about is
what if we were to simply think about or
consider all of the possible
permutations of the input letters?
Permutation, that's
a fancy mathematic word.
It simply means all of
the possible reorderings, okay?
So it turns out that for a five letter
input, there are five factorial,
there are 120 permutations
of those letters.
And what's interesting about
the permutation space, first of all,
I was able to fit it all on the screen,
and yes,
this slide did take me 30
minutes to put all of those in.
And it was kind of a nightmare.
Anyway, nobody appreciates how much work
it takes to create slides these days.
Anyway, so all 120 of those permutations,
and what's interesting about that is,
for the words that we're
interested in looking at,
it is guaranteed that our word
will appear in one of these
permutations if it's possible
to do the reordering of it.
That's, by nature of
permutating the input letters,
we are getting all possible
reorderings of the letters.
So the word that we care about has got
to appear somewhere in this list if it's
possible to make that
word with these letters.
And that takes care,
by the way, of our repetition.
It just automatically says, you got
to have enough of those letters for
it to show up.
Not only do we know that it must show up,
we know that it must show up
in the first few characters.
So the word CAN never appears anywhere.
But the word CAP does appear as
the first three letters of at least
one of these permutations,
in fact, two of them, okay?
And the word CAPE does show up in exactly
one word in the very first position.
It also shows up in the last position, but
it shows up in exactly one word
where it's in the first position.
Same thing with CAR, same thing with CARE.
The word CLAP is never gonna
show up in these permutations.
The word EACH is never gonna show up.
The word EAR is gonna show up
in one of these permutations,
in fact,
two of them at the very beginning.
So if we were to think about this as
an algorithm, we could say, well,
I could take my inputs,
whatever those are,
produce the entire space
of permutations of those.
And then simply search through those
to see if the word that I'm looking
out in the dictionary appears in the first
position of any permutation, and
then I know whether it's a match.
So that is a workable algorithm.
Does the algorithm make sense?
We'll talk about whether
it's a good algorithm, but
it is an algorithm that we can implement.
Does it make sense?
Let's think about the problem space and
a little bit about its theoretical growth.
One of the things about factorial
is that it grows pretty quickly.
So five inputs is 120, not a big deal.
Six inputs, 720, also not a big deal.
Seven inputs, 5,040,
also not terribly bad.
But these numbers really
start to grow very quickly.
About 10 factorial is when that
number of possible permutations
starts to really get out of hand,
and then, 11, 12, 13.
By 15 factorial,
we're at 1.3 trillion permutations.
Now, if you think about it,
you could write your app so
that people were constrained in how many
possible characters they could type in.
You could limit that to eight or nine, but
how many words are there in the English
dictionary that are longer than that?
It turns out that the average length of
words is somewhere between 11 and 12.
So if you limited it to 12 for most
common words that people are gonna type,
then you're at, what is that?
479 million permutations of those words.
That's pretty large and it's gonna take
up a pretty sizable chunk of memory,
not impossible.
1.3 trillion is probably approaching,
you're gonna run out of space.
At least, on some users devices,
of course, this is context dependent, yes.
>> Kyle, and as you're speaking of
these numbers, this is one user,
one instance, correct?
You would have to multiply this by
however many users are actually accessing
this system.
>> It's gonna be done client-side, so
I don't think it actually matters.
We wouldn't be doing on the server.
You'd be doing this only in the browser.
But yes,
if you were doing this server-side,
then you would have to have the system
resources to handle this for all users.
Hopefully, you'd be able to share
some of that work between users, but
probably not a lot of it.
But yeah, we're talking about
a purely client-side solution,
that is a good point.
>> Thank you.
>> All right, so, and by the way,
just some of my analysis on dictionaries.
There are words that are 20,
25, 30 characters long.
Those are pretty unusual words, but
there are quite a few words that we use in
everyday English that are at
least 12 to 15 characters.
So it is not completely unreasonable that
somebody might wanna use an app like this
and type in 12 to 15 characters.
These aren't crazy numbers, and
we're already getting into very,
very huge numbers that are quite easily
beyond the bounds of practicality, okay?
So 1.3 trillion is a pretty big and
scary number.
And so we can already know in a similar
way to when we theoretically analyzed our
exponential solution in nights dialer.
We already know that even though this
is a workable solution in the small,
it gets really bad, really fast.
A couple of other things to point out
is that it's actually worse than that.
[LAUGH] The worst part is that we actually
can't do that permutation once for
those large numbers.
Because there's no possible way
that we could put 1.3 trillion of
those permutations in memory and keep all
of them in memory while we go through each
of the dictionary words,
potentially 300,000 dictionary words.
So if we're gonna do this,
we're actually going to have to
redo the permutation as we go every
single word in the dictionary.
We're not permuting the dictionary words,
but we are permuting the input.
And because we can't keep all of that
in memory for those big numbers,
we're gonna have to redo
the permutation for each single word.
That means we'll have to redo that
permutation potentially 300,000 times.
So it's actually worse than O of k.
It's O of n times k factorial,
which k being the length of input.
The good news is it's
not actually that bad.
Still pretty bad, but it's not that bad
because the permutation of the input,
regardless of how many characters it is,
it can stop once
we've reached the number of characters for
that particular dictionary word.
So if we're looking at a dictionary
word that is three letters long,
we don't need to do all 15 factorial.
We only need to go 15 times 14 times 13,
and
it will guarantee that that three-letter
word shows up in there if it's a match.
So it's much better than 15 factorial.
But 15 times 14 times 13 in the best
case for a three-letter word and
in the worst case,
it's still 15 factorial.
We can also abandon any of the partial
permutations as we're going opposively,
where the next character that
we permute doesn't match.
We can just bail out early.
So there's a lot of
opportunities to bail out early.
And I don't even know with those
complexities involved exactly
what the growth of this algorithm is,
in a theoretical sense.
I don't know what the O of n is.
It's not quite n factorial, but
it's a lot worse than polynomial or
exponential, so
it's somewhere in between those.
And we'll see that play out when
we implemented our timings.
It'll be another great illustration of,
wow, I added one more character and
it went 11 times as long.
It's a fun illustration.
Okay, so
that's our algorithm to start with.
Again, as the baseline, it's good to have
a working algorithm to compare against,
even though we know that this is probably
not the one we are gonna ship to.
It's definitely not the one we
are gonna ship to production.